# Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) API Usage

This module provides functions to interact with the Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) API for sending messages, subscribing/unsubscribing devices to/from topics, and handling multicast messages.

## Functions

### `subscribeToTopic(accessToken, registrationTokenOrTokens, topic)`

Subscribes a device or multiple devices to an FCM topic.

- **accessToken** (string): Access token generated by Google JWT.
- **registrationTokenOrTokens** (string|string[]): A token or array of registration tokens for the devices to subscribe to the topic.
- **topic** (string): The topic to which to subscribe.

Returns a promise fulfilled with the server's response after the device(s) have been subscribed to the topic.

### `unsubscribeFromTopic(accessToken, registrationTokenOrTokens, topic)`

Unsubscribes a device or multiple devices from an FCM topic.

- **accessToken** (string): Access token generated by Google JWT.
- **registrationTokenOrTokens** (string|string[]): A device registration token or an array of device registration tokens to unsubscribe from the topic.
- **topic** (string): The topic from which to unsubscribe.

Returns a promise fulfilled with the server's response after the device(s) have been unsubscribed from the topic.

### `send(projectId, accessToken, message, dryRun)`

Sends a message via FCM.

- **projectId** (string): Project ID assigned in Firebase.
- **accessToken** (string): Access token generated by Google JWT.
- **message** ([Message](#message)): The message payload.
- **dryRun** (boolean): Whether to send the message in the dry-run (validation only) mode.

Returns a promise fulfilled with a unique message ID string after the message has been successfully handed off to the FCM service for delivery.

### `sendEachForMulticast(projectId, accessToken, message, dryRun)`

Sends a multicast message to all specified device tokens.

- **projectId** (string): Project ID assigned in Firebase.
- **accessToken** (string): Access token generated by Google JWT.
- **message** ([MulticastMessage](#multicastmessage)): A multicast message containing an array of device tokens.
- **dryRun** (boolean): Whether to send the message in the dry-run (validation only) mode.

Returns a promise fulfilled with an object representing the result of the send operation.

### `sendEach(projectId, accessToken, messages, dryRun)`

Sends each message in the given array via Firebase Cloud Messaging.

- **projectId** (string): Project ID assigned in Firebase.
- **accessToken** (string): Access token generated by Google JWT.
- **messages** ([Message](#message)[]): A non-empty array containing up to 500 messages.
- **dryRun** (boolean): Whether to send the messages in the dry-run (validation only) mode.

Returns a promise fulfilled with an object representing the result of the send operation.

## Message Structures

### `Message`

Payload for sending messages via FCM.

```javascript
{
  data?: { [key: string]: string };
  notification?: Notification;
  android?: AndroidConfig;
  webpush?: WebpushConfig;
  apns?: ApnsConfig;
  fcmOptions?: FcmOptions;
}
```

For more details, refer to the [Firebase Admin Node SDK Messaging API documentation](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-admin-node/blob/837b69b61b3df3dcd8a31ccd16062e1bba236dca/src/messaging/messaging-api.ts).


# Test case coverage status

```test coverage status
-----------------------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|-------------------------
File                         | % Stmts | % Branch | % Funcs | % Lines | Uncovered Line #s       
-----------------------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|-------------------------
All files                    |   80.64 |     62.5 |   89.65 |   80.48 |                         
 app                         |    75.8 |       50 |   92.85 |    75.4 |                         
  messagin-error-internal.js |   51.85 |       50 |     100 |   51.85 | 11,14-17,24,35-36,42-49 
  messaging.js               |   94.28 |       50 |   91.66 |   94.11 | 124-126                 
 constants                   |     100 |      100 |     100 |     100 |                         
  apiConstants.js            |     100 |      100 |     100 |     100 |                         
  errorConstants.js          |     100 |      100 |     100 |     100 |                         
 util                        |   84.74 |    81.25 |   86.66 |   84.74 |                         
  apiRequest.js              |   33.33 |      100 |       0 |   33.33 | 4-7                     
  helper.js                  |      75 |      100 |     100 |      75 | 5                       
  request.js                 |   87.23 |       75 |   88.88 |   87.23 | 39,45,71-77,93          
  validator.js               |     100 |      100 |     100 |     100 |                         
-----------------------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|-------------------------

```